README.md, before:

# Hans Foundation Identity Verification Tool

## Overview
A PHP-based web application that extracts details (Name, Address, Aadhaar Number, DOB, Gender) from Indian Aadhaar Card images using **Tesseract OCR** and stores the extracted data in a CSV file.

## Requirements

### Server
- PHP 7.4+ (with `exec()` enabled)
- Apache/Nginx web server
- **Tesseract OCR** installed on the server

### Installing Tesseract OCR

#### Windows
1. Download from: https://github.com/UB-Mannheim/tesseract/wiki
2. Install and add to PATH
3. Optionally install Hindi language pack during setup

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install tesseract-ocr tesseract-ocr-hin
```

#### macOS
```bash
brew install tesseract tesseract-lang
```

### Verify Tesseract Installation
```bash
tesseract --version
tesseract --list-langs   # Should show 'eng' and ideally 'hin'
```

## Folder Structure
```
Test-OCR/
├── index.php              # Main application
├── style.css              # Stylesheet
├── README.md              # This file
├── uploads/               # Uploaded Aadhaar images
│   └── (images stored here)
├── data/
│   ├── .htaccess          # Protects CSV from direct access
│   └── aadhaar_records.csv # Extracted records
```

## Usage
1. Open the application in a browser (`http://localhost/Test-OCR/`)
2. Click **Upload Image** and select an Aadhaar card image
3. Click **Process Aadhaar Card** to extract details via OCR
4. View the extraction report with Name, Address, Aadhaar Number, DOB, and Gender
5. All records are saved to `data/aadhaar_records.csv`

## Notes
- For best OCR results, upload clear, well-lit, high-resolution images
- The tool supports both front and back of the Aadhaar card
- Address extraction works best from the back of the Aadhaar card
- The Aadhaar number pattern (XXXX XXXX XXXX) is detected automatically

Commit message:

Replace Tesseract with OCR.space API, add multi-engine merge, fuzzy surname correction, progress UI, file dedup, and CSV upsert
- Switched from local Tesseract to OCR.space cloud API (Engine 1 + Engine 2)
- Multi-engine parsing: each engine result parsed independently, best fields merged
- Fuzzy surname correction via 200+ Indian surname dictionary (levenshtein)
- Diacritics stripping for OCR artifacts (ä→a, å→a, etc.)
- DOB fix: parse front/back separately so back-image metadata dates are never used as DOB
- Broadened date regex to handle garbled separators (apostrophes, dots)
- Processing progress overlay with step-by-step status and animated progress bar
- Upload button spinner feedback
- File deduplication: MD5 hash check prevents saving identical uploads
- CSV upsert: updates existing row if same Aadhaar number, prevents duplicate records
- Updated README and footer for OCR.space attribution

README.md, after:

# Hans Foundation Identity Verification Tool

## Overview
A PHP-based web application that extracts details (Name, Address, Aadhaar Number, DOB, Gender) from Indian Aadhaar Card images using the **OCR.space API** and stores the extracted data in a CSV file.

## Requirements

### Server
- PHP 7.4+ (with `curl` extension enabled)
- Apache/Nginx web server

### OCR.space API
This app uses the [OCR.space](https://ocr.space/) cloud API — no local OCR software required. The API key is configured in `index.php`.

## Folder Structure
```
Test-OCR/
├── index.php              # Main application
├── style.css              # Stylesheet
├── README.md              # This file
├── uploads/               # Uploaded Aadhaar images
│   └── (images stored here)
├── data/
│   ├── .htaccess          # Protects CSV from direct access
│   └── aadhaar_records.csv # Extracted records
```

## Usage
1. Open the application in a browser (`http://localhost/Test-OCR/`)
2. Click **Upload Image** and select an Aadhaar card image
3. Click **Process Aadhaar Card** to extract details via OCR
4. View the extraction report with Name, Address, Aadhaar Number, DOB, and Gender
5. All records are saved to `data/aadhaar_records.csv`

## Notes
- For best OCR results, upload clear, well-lit, high-resolution images
- The tool supports both front and back of the Aadhaar card
- Address extraction works best from the back of the Aadhaar card
- The Aadhaar number pattern (XXXX XXXX XXXX) is detected automatically
